== SOURCE

https://news.mit.edu/2020/machine-learning-picks-out-hidden-vibrations-earthquake-data-0228

== AGENT

MIT Researchers

== GOAL

Machine learning selects secret vibrations from data from earthquakes.
Technology can allow scientists to map large underground geological structures, for example, oil reserves, geothermal sources, etc. more accurately with these vibrations.

== DATA

The data they use is seismic waves. They do so by monitoring seismic waves that are generated by earthquakes naturally or by explosives or underwater air guns artificially. 
Scientists may get an idea of the sort of structures that lie under the surface from the way these waves bounce and disperse across the Earth.

== METHODS

The researchers tried to train a deep neural network, a CNN, a class of deep neural networks that are mostly used for visual information processing but in this case, 
they used it for signal processing. A CNN typically consists of an input and output layer that processes inputs to identify connections between them, and several hidden layers between them. They used a Supervised learning approach.

== RESULTS

Using the Marmousi model, a complex two-dimensional geophysical model that simulates the way seismic waves pass through geological structures of varying density and composition, 
the researchers trained their neural network with inputs they created. The team used the model to simulate nine "virtual earth" in their analysis, each with a different composition
of the subsurface. They simulated 30 different earthquakes for each Earth model, all with the same intensity but different starting positions. Hundreds of different seismic scenarios
were developed by the researchers in total. They fed into their neural network the data from almost all of these simulations and let the network find connections between seismic signals.
Following the training session, the team presented a new earthquake to the neural network that they simulated in the Earth model but did not include in the original training results. 
They only used the high-frequency component of the seismic activity of the earthquake, assuming that the neural network had learned enough from the training data to be able to infer
from the new feedback the missing low-frequency signals. They found that the same low-frequency values that the Marmousi model originally simulated were generated by the neural network.
Researchers say, "The findings are fairly good." "Seeing how far the network can extrapolate to the missing frequencies is amazing."

== ISSUES

The approach has its drawbacks, as with all neural networks. The neural network, specifically, is just as strong as the data that is fed into it. 
There is no guarantee that the output would be correct if a new input is wildly different from the bulk of a network's training data. 
The researchers state that they intend to add a broader range of data to the neural network to deal with this constraint, such as earthquakes of various strengths,
as well as subsurfaces of more diverse composition.

== SCORE

8

== COMMENTS

The idea seems to be interesting as this would be helpful in mining as to whether the particular land has oil reserves, geothermal sources, etc. underneath so that unwanted excavation
can be stopped and the land can be used for other sources. As suggested by the researchers, the low-frequency signals from the actual seismic data need to be extracted and then plugged
in into seismic models to map accurately the geological structures below the earth's surface. Also, data augmentation has been done to generate different types of signals for processing.
This is the ideal approach that would be followed by me too if I would be researching. The reporting in the press seems to be reasonable as the details highlighted has been extrapolated
properly in terms of approach. The method to use seismic waves to detect the underground structure is old but it was difficult for the current detectors to pick up. With the integration
of the ML method, they are able to trace the low-frequency waves from the high-frequency seismic waves. I would also try to implement CNN-Xgboost as a recognizer which may improve 
prediction accuracy to a far more extent as observed by the predictors.