== SOURCE

https://www.vice.com/en/article/78k7de/why-an-ai-judged-beauty-contest-picked-nearly-all-white-winners

== AGENT

This machine-learning work is done by Youth Laboratories and supported by Microsoft and Nvidia.

== GOAL

Youth Laboratories ran a beauty contest with 600,000 entries, who sent in selfies from around the world — India, China, all over Africa, and the US. 
They let, a set of algorithms judge them based on their face's symmetry, their wrinkles, and how young or old they looked for their age. 
The algorithms did not evaluate skin colour.


== DATA

All the algorithms were trained on open source machine learning databases that are shared between researchers.
Algorithms are trained on a set of images with almost 3000+ images of resolution more than 2k, pre-labelled with
bio parameters like weight, height, age, gender, ethnicity and country.

== METHODS

Deep learning has been used to implement these algorithms.
Theano for Deep convolutional neural networks (CNN) implementation
OpenCV for image processing

4 main algorithms used:

AntiAgeist - This algorithm measures two things. First, how old it thinks the person in the photo is. 
Second, how old it believes people will think the person is. Based on the difference between these and the person’s actual age, 
it comes up with an AntiAgeist score.

PIMPL: This algorithm detects acne and allergic rashes and scores people based on how clear their skin is.

RYNKL: It counts the number of wrinkles a person has and gives them a score based on it.

MADIS: It compares photographs of people with those of models and actors in the person’s ethnic group and tries to determine how 
similar the person looks to models and actors.

Symmetry Master score: This algorithm measures the distance between various key points on your face and determines how symmetrical it is.

== RESULTS

More than 600,000 people from around the world sent in pictures of their faces to be judged by bots. 
But when the results released in August came in, 37 of the 44 winners were white. Six were Asian and only one of the winners had dark skin. 
It looked like AI considered skin colour as one of the parameter for beauty even if none of the algorithms were suppose to evaluate skin colour.

== ISSUES

The main issue with the algorithm was the dataset it was trained on. According to Konstantin Kiselev, chief technology officer of Youth Laboratories,
the dataset had more white people than black or brown people, which shows that the data on which the AI was trained, is very important 
when it comes to real world applications. This is the problem with many real world AI applications, for example, a language processing algorithm 
was recently found to rate specific region names as more "pleasant" than other names. Another thing to consider here is, human analysis is necessary,
after AI results, to verify if the algorithm is working as per the expectations. For example, if dataset has 85% images of white people and 
remaining for brown or black, and the results are such that the AI gave 95% results correct, you would not know at the first instance 
if the analysis is correct or not.


== SCORE

8

== COMMENTS

I think this story was very interesting because we always focus on which technology to use or which tools are best for the application 
but when it comes to developing real world applications, testing and datasets are equally important. After all AI is nothing but a learning machine 
and we would not know what the algorithm is learning from data, for example once AI is developed for military purpose to identify the tank 
from set of images. When algorithm was tested, the results were 100% correct, but after a while scientists found out that the machine actually
learned about the sky in the images rather than tanks. That is why according to me its important to analyze the results of machine learning algorithms 
rather than just focusing on numbers.
This article was very important because after this, many such cases of AI came out where the results were bias because of lack of diversity 
in the training datasets. To overcome this problem with real world applications of AI, new algorithm has been developed called Diversity.ai 
which evaluates the diversity parameter of multiple AI applications. 

