== SOURCE

https://www.predictiveanalyticsworld.com/machinelearningtimes/inside-tiktoks-killer-algorithm/11717/

== AGENT

Tiktok

== GOAL

Creating a sensational social mobile application with an enormously wide spread range of happy users!

== DATA

Text (Captions, Hashtags), Videos, Audio, Device and Account Setting (Language Preference, Country Setting, Device Type)

== METHODS

Combination of Unsupervised Learning (Clustering), Reinforcement Learning (Filter Bubble)

== RESULTS

Tiktok has been very efficient in creating a personalised Filter Bubble for each of its application user thereby making it widely and immensely popular among its users; yet, it is now ethically critisized by many leaders and activists through out the world.

== ISSUES

The issue seems to be the lack of transparency by Tiktok about its Algorithm and also the use of one of the leading ethical controversial topics of the time in its algorithm - The Filter Bubble.

== SCORE

7

== COMMENTS

With great power comes great responsibility! Though the technology is so beautifully implemented that the consumer crowd is not only adoring it but it has also grown to become the livelihood for many of them which has helped the application spike up its popularity in a very short time; one cannot fail to ignore the negative implications of the technology on the daily life preferences and individual perspectives of its users. The Filter Bubble, a widely controversial topic at the moment, seems to create a false universe around an individual by the virtue of its mechanism! Tiktok implements the Filter Bubble by displaying to its user, selective content on the internet which is not only in their domain of interest, but also in synchrony with their opinions on the domain, thereby creating an alternate dimension for them where everything seems to look exactly the way one would want it to be which is exactly the opposite of the real world. Sure, as we are humans, it is very much under our control to choose not to be influenced by the virtual world created for us using the Filter Bubble; also methods do exist to break out of the "Filter Bubble" by choosing to view content belonging to a varied range of interests but the majority of users seem to lack the ability to do so. In the long run this may have a large negative impact on the structure of human society and interactions.
Displaying content related to both similar and opposite opinion for a given domain of interest of an individual would be a good start to bringing people closer to the reality. Also promoting content related to education, social awareness and well-being using either short advertisements videos or virtual social events may help too.
